Rel Notes for Storage 4.14 (#63632)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-14-release-notes.adoc

For more information, see xref:../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-google-cloud-file.adoc[Google Compute Platform Filestore CSI Driver Operator].

[id="ocp-4-14-storage-automigration-vsphere"]
==== Automatic CSI migration for VMware vSphere
Starting with {product-title} 4.8, automatic migration for in-tree volume plugins to their equivalent Container Storage Interface (CSI) drivers became available as a Technology Preview feature. 

Support for vSphere was provided in this feature in {product-title} 4.10 at the Technology Preview level, and vSphere support became generally available in 4.13. However, while for new installations of {product-title}, automatic migration was enabled by default, when upgrading from {product-title} 4.12, or earlier, to 4.13, automatic CSI migration for vSphere only occurred if you opted in. In {product-title} 4.14, CSI migration for vSphere is now enabled by default under all circumstances and requires no action by an administrator.

This feature automatically translates in-tree objects to their counterpart CSI representations and should be completely transparent to users.

> Although storage class referencing to the in-tree storage plug-in will continue working, it is recommended that you switch the default storage class to the CSI storage class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although storage class referencing to the in-tree storage plug-in continues working, it is recommended that you switch the default storage class to the CSI storage class.
```

For more information, see xref:../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-migration.adoc[CSI automatic migration].

[id="ocp-4-14-storage-secrets-store-csi-driver-operator]
==== Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator (Technology Preview)

> The Secrets Store Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver Operator, `secrets-store.csi.k8s.io`, allows [product-title] to mount multiple secrets, keys, and certificates stored in enterprise-grade external secrets stores into pods as a volume. The Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator communicates with the provider using gRPC to fetch the mount contents from the specified external secrets store. After the volume is attached, the data in it is mounted into the container’s file system. This feature is supported with Technology Preview status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Secrets Store Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver Operator, `secrets-store.csi.k8s.io`, allows {product-title} to mount multiple secrets, keys, and certificates stored in enterprise-grade external secrets stores into pods as a volume. The Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator communicates with the provider using gRPC to fetch the mount contents from the specified external secrets store. After the volume is attached, the data in it is mounted into the container’s file system. This feature is supported with Technology Preview status.
```

> For more information, see ???add link for storage content & authentication content???

Reviewer: Don't forget to add your link here :)

[id="ocp-4-14-storage-azure-file-nfs]
==== Azure File supporting NFS is generally available
{product-title} 4.14 supports Azure File Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver Operator with Network File System (NFS) as generally available.

> For more information, see ???.

Reviewer: link?

[id="ocp-4-14-storage"]
=== Storage

[id="ocp-4-14-storage-standardized-sts-config"]
==== Standardized STS configuration workflow
{product-title} 4.14 provides a streamlined and standardized procedure to configure Security Token Service (STS) with the AWS Elastic File Storage (EFS) Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver Operator.

For more information, see xref:../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-aws-efs.adoc#efs-sts_persistent-storage-csi-aws-efs[Configuring AWS EFS CSI Driver Operator with Security Token Service].

[id="ocp-4-14-storage-rwod-access-mode"]

> ==== Read Write Only Pod access mode (Technology Preview)

Reviewer 2: Can we please update "Read Write Only Pod" to "Read Write Once Pod"

Reviewer 3: +1 @lpettyjo

Author: Fixed!

> {product-title} 4.14 introduces a new access mode for persistent volumes (PVs) and persistent volume claims (PVCs) called ReadWriteOncePod (RWOD), which can be used only in a single pod on a single node. This is compared to the existing ReadWriteOnce access mode where a PV or PVC can be used on a single node by many pods. This feature is supported with Technology Preview status.

Reviewer 2: Can we please update "RWOD" to "RWOP"

Reviewer 3: +1 @lpettyjo

Author: Done.

For more information, see xref:../storage/understanding-persistent-storage.adoc#pv-access-modes_understanding-persistent-storage[Access modes].

[id="ocp-4-14-storage-robust-volmgr"]

> ==== Robust VolumeManager reconstruction (Technology Preview)

Reviewer 2: As per the last conversation, this story was moved to 4.15, in that case can we please remove documentation for this story? @jsafrane Can you please confirm?

Author: Done.

> ==== Robust VolumeManager reconstruction (Technology Preview)

Reviewer 3: @lpettyjo 
This one slipped to 4.15. 
cc @jsafrane

Author: Removed.

This feature changes how the kubelet starts and cleans up orphaned volumes. This change improves how the node and kubelet startup. If you find any issues with this feature, please report them. This feature is supported with Technology Preview status.

[id="ocp-4-14-storage-gcp-filestore-csi-driver"]
==== GCP Filestore storage CSI Driver Operator is generally available

> {product-title} is capable of provisioning persistent volumes (PVs) using the Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver for Google Compute Platform (GCP) Filestore Storage. The GCP Filestore CSI Driver Operator that manages this driver is now generally available.

Author: Added it.

For more information, see xref:../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-google-cloud-file.adoc[Google Compute Platform Filestore CSI Driver Operator].

[id="ocp-4-14-storage-automigration-vsphere"]
==== Automatic CSI migration for VMware vSphere
Starting with {product-title} 4.8, automatic migration for in-tree volume plugins to their equivalent Container Storage Interface (CSI) drivers became available as a Technology Preview feature. 

Support for vSphere was provided in this feature in {product-title} 4.10 at the Technology Preview level, and vSphere support became generally available in 4.13. However, while for new installations of {product-title}, automatic migration was enabled by default, when upgrading from {product-title} 4.12, or earlier, to 4.13, automatic CSI migration for vSphere only occurred if you opted in. In {product-title} 4.14, CSI migration for vSphere is now enabled by default under all circumstances and requires no action by an administrator.

> This feature automatically translates in-tree objects to their counterpart CSI representations and should be completely transparent to users.

Reviewer 3: Looks good from a general standpoint. We may have to link to a KCS  that describes the two remaining issues

Author: OK. Keeping this comment open for this.

Although storage class referencing to the in-tree storage plug-in will continue working, it is recommended that you switch the default storage class to the CSI storage class.

For more information, see xref:../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-migration.adoc[CSI automatic migration].

[id="ocp-4-14-storage-secrets-store-csi-driver-operator"]
==== Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator (Technology Preview)
The Secrets Store Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver Operator, `secrets-store.csi.k8s.io`, allows {product-title} to mount multiple secrets, keys, and certificates stored in enterprise-grade external secrets stores into pods as a volume. The Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator communicates with the provider using gRPC to fetch the mount contents from the specified external secrets store. After the volume is attached, the data in it is mounted into the container’s file system. This feature is supported with Technology Preview status.

For more information, see ???add link for storage content & authentication content???

[id="ocp-4-14-storage-azure-file-nfs"]

> ==== Azure File supporting NFS is generally available

Reviewer 3: @lpettyjo 
Azure File CSI NFS support is generally available?

Author: @gcharot agreed this is GA, but that there is a known bug that needs to be documented.

For more information, see xref:../storage/understanding-persistent-storage.adoc#pv-access-modes_understanding-persistent-storage[Access modes].

[id="ocp-4-14-storage-gcp-filestore-csi-driver"]
==== GCP Filestore storage CSI Driver Operator is generally available
{product-title} is capable of provisioning persistent volumes (PVs) using the Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver for Google Compute Platform (GCP) Filestore Storage. The GCP Filestore CSI Driver Operator was introduced in {product-title} 4.12 with Technology Preview support. The GCP Filestore CSI Driver Operator is now generally available.

For more information, see xref:../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-google-cloud-file.adoc[Google Compute Platform Filestore CSI Driver Operator].

[id="ocp-4-14-storage-automigration-vsphere"]

> ==== Automatic CSI migration for VMware vSphere

Reviewer 3: @lpettyjo We need to add the vsphere version and OCP upgrades consideration here

Author: Done.

In {product-title} 4.14, CSI migration for vSphere is enabled by default under all circumstances and requires no action by an administrator. 

However, if you are using vSphere in-tree persistent volumes (PVs) and want to upgrade from {product-title} 4.12 or 4.13 to 4.14, update vSphere vCenter and ESXI host to 7.0 Update 3L or 8.0 Update 2, otherwise the {product-title} upgrade is blocked. If you do not want to update vSphere, you can proceed with an {product-title} upgrade by performing an administrator acknowledgment. However, with using the administrator acknowledgment, known issues can occur. link:https://access.redhat.com/node/7011683[Before proceeding with the administrator acknowledgement, carefully read this knowledge base article].

For more information, see xref:../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-migration.adoc[CSI automatic migration].

[id="ocp-4-14-storage-secrets-store-csi-driver-operator"]
==== Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator (Technology Preview)

> The Secrets Store Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver Operator, `secrets-store.csi.k8s.io`, allows {product-title} to mount multiple secrets, keys, and certificates stored in enterprise-grade external secrets stores into pods as a volume. The Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator communicates with the provider using gRPC to fetch the mount contents from the specified external secrets store. After the volume is attached, the data in it is mounted into the container’s file system. This feature is supported with Technology Preview status.

Reviewer 3: (..) and certificates stored in enterprise-grade external secrets stores into pods as a inline ephemeral volume.

|Technology Preview
|Technology Preview

|NFS support for Azure File CSI Operator Driver
|Not Available
|Not Available
|Generally Available

> |Read Write Only Pod access mode

Reviewer 2: Can we please update "Read Write Only Pod" to "Read Write Once Pod" ?

Author: Done.
